Which of the following is NOT a primary function of an operating system?
a) Memory management
b) File management
c) Device management
d) Network management

Which scheduling algorithm provides equal priority to each process and allows them to execute in a round-robin fashion?
a) First-Come, First-Served (FCFS)
b) Shortest Job Next (SJN)
c) Round Robin (RR)
d) Priority scheduling

What is the purpose of a page replacement algorithm in virtual memory management?
a) To allocate physical memory to processes
b) To manage input/output operations
c) To minimize the number of page faults
d) To enforce memory protection between processes

Which synchronization primitive allows multiple threads to access a shared resource simultaneously?
a) Mutex
b) Semaphore
c) Monitor
d) Barrier

Which of the following is an example of a file system used in Linux operating systems?
a) NTFS
b) FAT32
c) HFS+
d) Ext4

What is the purpose of a deadlock in an operating system?
a) To optimize memory allocation
b) To prevent unauthorized access to system resources
c) To ensure fairness in process scheduling
d) To cause a situation where processes are unable to proceed

Which process scheduling algorithm assigns priority to each process based on their characteristics and dynamically adjusts priorities as per the requirements?
a) First-Come, First-Served (FCFS)
b) Shortest Job Next (SJN)
c) Round Robin (RR)
d) Multilevel Queue Scheduling

Which memory management scheme allows the operating system to move processes into and out of main memory to maximize the utilization of available memory?
a) Paging
b) Segmentation
c) Virtual memory
d) Swapping

Which system call is used to create a new process in an operating system?
a) fork()
b) exec()
c) wait()
d) exit()

What is the purpose of a shell in an operating system?
a) To manage hardware resources
b) To execute system calls
c) To provide a command-line interface for user interaction
d) To handle device drivers




